# Design tokens

The [Design tokens W3C Group](https://www.w3.org/community/design-tokens/) describes the [Design tokens format](https://design-tokens.github.io/community-group/format) as is:

> Design tokens are a methodology for expressing design decisions in a platform-agnostic way so that they can be shared across different disciplines, tools, and technologies. They help establish a common vocabulary across organisations.

Pinceau uses Design tokens as a standard format to describe values in its configuration file.

Most of the examples you may have already seen from the configuration file may seem like a plain key/value object, but here is what it looks like after being normalized:

::code-group

```ts [tokens.config.ts]
defineTheme({
  media: {
    tablet: '(min-width: 768px)',
    desktop: '(min-width: 1024px)',
  },

  color: {
    white: '#FFFFFF',
    black: '#191919',
    primary: '#ED4D31',
    secondary: '#4560B0',
    tertiary: '#FBEFDE',
  },

  space: {
    1: '0.25rem',
    2: '0.5rem',
    3: '0.75rem',
    4: '1rem',
  }
})
```

```ts [Normalized]
const theme = {
  media: {
    tablet: {
      value: '(min-width: 768px)'
    },
    desktop: {
      value: '(min-width: 1024px)'
    }
  },
  color: {
    white: {
      value: '#FFFFFF'
    },
    black: {
      value: '#191919'
    },
    primary: {
      value: '#ED4D31'
    },
    secondary: {
      value: '#4560B0'
    },
    tertiary: {
      value: '#FBEFDE'
    }
  },
  space: {
    1: {
      value: '0.25rem'
    },
    2: {
      value: '0.5rem'
    },
    3: {
      value: '0.75rem'
    },
    4: {
      value: '1rem'
    }
  }
}
```

::

## Why Design tokens ?

> [Design tokens](https://design-tokens.github.io/community-group/format/#introduction) are a methodology for expressing design decisions in a platform-agnostic way so that they can be shared across different disciplines, tools, and technologies. They help establish a common vocabulary across organisations.

Pinceau is a tool made to make it easier to implement styling coming from a global theme definition.

Having a standard format to store and expose your design decisions makes it a lot easier for us to build tooling on top of your theme without enforcing a structure for it.

It both enables you to write styling how it pleases you and us to create tooling that is future-proof.

## Should I write my tokens with `value` ?

Most of the time, there should be no need for it.

Reaching for `myColor: { value: 'red' }` over `myColor: 'red'` has no impact on outputs.


What it might be useful for is:

- Using other Design tokens attributes for you to consume them later
- Using the [$schema](/advanced/$schema) key for this specific token
- Creating a sync with tokens generated by tools like [Figma Tokens](https://www.figma.com/community/plugin/843461159747178978/Tokens-Studio-for-Figma-(Figma-Tokens))
- You like it better this way 👩‍🎨
