# Media queries

Pinceau makes it a breeze to declare your [Media queries](https://developer.mozilla.org/fr/docs/Web/CSS/Media_Queries/Using_media_queries) in your configuration and use them in your components and CSS files.

The `media` key in any [tokens.config](/configuration/tokens-config) file is always reserved for them.

It also always comes with `@dark` and `@light` support.

Defining you media queries usually looks like this in your configuration:

```ts
defineTheme({
  media: {
    // @tablet
    tablet: '(min-width: 768px)',
    // @desktop
    desktop: '(min-width: 1024px)',
    // @sepia
    sepia: ':root.sepia'
  },
})
```

In this example you can see:

- **Regular** media queries
  - Expressed as if the value was replacing * in `@media * { }`{lang="css"}
- **Root class** media queries
  - Expressed as if the value was replacing * in `<html class="*">`{lang="html"}

## Using your queries

Once you have defined these media queries, they will then be available through in all features that relies in the `media` config key.

That includes regular CSS and the `css()` functions.

The syntax between these is very similar:

::code-group
```vue [css()]
<style lang="ts">
css({
  html: {
    color: '{color.gray.900}'
    padding: '{space.4}'

    '@dark': {
      color: '{color.gray.100}'
    }

    '@md': {
      padding: '{space.8}'
    }
  }
})
</style>
```

```css [.postcss]
html {
  color: $dt('color.gray.900');
  padding: $dt('space.4');

  @dark {
    color: $dt('color.gray.100');
  }

  @md {
    padding: $dt('space.8');
  }
}
```

```css [.css]
html {
  color: $dt('color.gray.900');
  padding: $dt('space.4');
}

@dark {
  html {
    color: $dt('color.gray.100');
  }
}

@md {
  html {
    padding: $dt('space.8');
  }
}
```
::

## Color scheme mode

Pinceau supports two different modes for color scheme handling.

This can be changed through the `colorSchemeMode` key of your [plugin options](/advanced/plugin-options) that can be set to `native` or `class`.

By default, it will use `@media (prefers-color-scheme: {dark|light})`{lang="css"}, but can also use `class` mode to support `:root.{dark|light}`{lang="css"}.

This feature is built to detect and support [@nuxtjs/color-mode](https://color-mode.nuxtjs.org) out of the box when used with `pinceau/nuxt` module.

## Compatibility

This `@query` syntax is also used by other toolings.

You can disable it using `mediaQueries: false` in your [options](/advanced/plugin-options) to give the priority to other tooling.

This might be useful to give precedence over another tooling and use Pinceau as a theming provider only.
